[Shaun] You should
put this on now.
My contractions are still
nine minutes apart,
and they're not... [gasps]
not that bad.
They are now 8 minutes
and 45 seconds apart.
We should get pancakes.
Where's my sweater?
I don't want pancakes.
I want you to put this on.
Shoot-- I forgot
my lucky socks.
The ones I wore last time
I was in the hospital...
when my brilliant husband
came up
with a miracle surgery
to save our baby.
Those are
hospital socks.
They are identical to
all the other hospital socks.
I will get you
another pair.
But they won't be
my lucky ones.
-I'll go home and get them.
-N-No.
You need to stay here.
And put this on.
And get hooked up
to a fetal monitor.
I will get the socks.
Okay.
How long after we get there
will the surgery start?
You'll go straight
to the pre-op,
where they'll do
a chest X-ray and echo.
Oh, why waste time with that?
I need a new valve.
There's no mystery here.
We'll also need blood
and urine samples.
Huh. I can give you that
right now.
That's...
not necessary.
Efficiency, boys.
Clearly, none of you
have been in the military.
[ringing]
Yeah. We're Oscar-Mike
from the nursing home,
but some dense fog
put us behind schedule.
Yeah. Make sure
the O.R. is prepped
and Dr. Park is
at the ready for Mr. Ermey
when we get there.
On the double.
Your dad a Marine?
Brother.
-Oorah.
-[chuckles]
Okay. Just make sure
your "dense fog" excuse
is only for your
critical care transport
and not dinner tonight.
Um, dress code?
To the nines.
Going tens.
[tires screech, horn blares]
[crashes]
Hello?
Danny?
You there?
[disconnection beep]
[groans]
You okay?
My knee's kind of messed up,
but otherwise okay.
[groans]
Mr. Ermey?
We've been in a crash.
All right.
We're gonna get you down.
-Okay.
-All right.
-You got his legs?
-Yeah.
All right.
three, two, one.
[groans] Gotcha.
-All right.
-Take his armband off.
-Yeah, I'm all right.
I'm all right.
-Watch your head.
[groans]
Okay.
I'm gonna unstrap you.
-Okay.
-All right. You ready?
-Mm-hmm.
-Three-two, one.
-[bones crack]
-Oh! I'm good.
I'm good.
-You good?
-Yeah, yeah.
[sighs] Okay.
[grunts]
[girls crying]
The truck came over the line.
I had nowhere to go.
Are you all right?
I think
my leg's broken.
Okay. Stay up there.
I'll get to you.
Can you reach
your radio?
We're gonna need at least
five more ambulances.
Got it.
Danny, you take the driver
of the pick-up truck.
-I'll get to the family.
-All right.
[driver] Dispatch...
[speaking indistinctly]
It's gonna be okay, girls.
Okay, I'm Jared.
I'm a doctor.
-What's your name?
-Uh, uh, Kenny.
[crying] I can't breathe.
Kenny, any pain in your chest?
Trouble breathing?
Uh, uh, I'm okay.
I'm okay. Help them.
All right. You sit over there.
I'll get to them.
[girls crying]
Hey, girls.
I'm gonna get you out
of these car seats
so you can be
with your dad, okay?
-What's your name?
-I'm Bea.
-Okay, Bea.
-My sister's name is Ella.
Okay. Okay.
All right.
Let's get you
out of there.
It's gonna be okay.
Good job, Bea.
Well done.
Ella, I'll be right back
for you, okay?
Good job.
Now, you go to your dad.
-There you go.
-I got you. I got you.
He's alive!
But pulse is
weak and thready.
Hey.
I'm gonna get you
out of here safe, all right?
Yeah, yeah. Don't worry.
I'm fine.
All right.
Hold still, please.
Okay, Ella. I'm Dr. Kalu.
Are you okay?
My chest--
I can't breathe.
[sobbing]
Okay. Let's get you out
of here so you can be
with your dad, all right?
Good job, Ella.
I've got you. That's it.
You're doing so well.
I've got you.
Get you under here.
Come on.
Okay. Good job, guys.
-[vehicle approaching]
-Good job.
No, no, no, no, no.
No. Hey! Hey!
Stop! Stop! Hey!
Danny!
[tires screech]
[theme music playing]
Lea's in labor.
We're having
our baby today.
Congratulations.
[door closes]
[elevator bell dings]
Morning, ladies.
Eden,
clocking in today?
My trial had three participants
drop out at the last minute,
and every available nanny
within 90 miles
is either dumb, lazy,
or incompetent.
Mommy Morgan has
very exacting standards.
I'm willing to
lower them momentarily
if you're available.
I just need a few minutes
to give my spiel
to a room full of
perimenopausal IBS patients.
I would, but I just got paged
to the E.R.
[elevator bell dings]
I'll stop by later.
[exhales deeply]
Be professional.
At least five seriously injured
multi-vehicle collision
patients are inbound,
including Dr. Perez.
I'll take
the first patient.
Then Dr. Park,
then Andrews, Wolke, and Allen,
in that order.
Senior doctors, when you have
stabilized your patients,
-please circle back
and assist the residents.
-[siren wailing]
Take a deep breath,
everybody.
Driver of the last car
of the pile-up--
head-on collision.
Conscious, has a pulse,
but not responding.
Suspected cervical spinal cord
and brachial plexus injury.
Chest hurts.
Where's my phone?
I need to make a call.
You'll get your phone call
soon, Mr. Ermey.
Get an eFAST
and assess for shock.
Let's fix that lac.
I need to drain
the hemopericardium.
Give FFP to control
the bleeding.
Fracture of the right femoral
shaft and left distal radius.
We got it.
-Hey, are you okay?
-I'm-- I'm good.
Where's Perez?
Kalu is bringing him
in the last ambulance.
So, he's
the least critical?
He's...
He'll be here soon.
Multiple rib fractures
and associated pneumothorax.
[groans] It hurts.
Hey, I'm Dr. Wolke.
We're gonna help you,
okay?
Finally.
[groans]
Still no purposeful eye
or limb movements.
Likely
a high c-spine fracture.
Let's get her stabilized
for a trauma pan-scan.
Massive right-side
hemopneumothorax,
but she's holding her own
on vitals.
-She needs a chest tube.
-What does that mean?
-Is-- Is she gonna--
-She's gonna be okay.
We just need to make sure
that you and the little one
are good.
-If you could take a seat--
-I-I-I'm fine.
Just a bruise from my--
Yes, I know you feel fine,
but we need to make sure.
I-It's okay, Bea.
Um, I-I-I got to
call my wife.
She doesn't even know
any of this happened.
[Jordan]
Abdominal ecchymosis,
peritoneal hemorrhage,
possible hemothorax.
You're bleeding everywhere.
Call up to O.R. 2
for an emergency ex lap.
No opioids.
What?
Just promise me.
No opioids.
Okay.
[groans]
Tell the anesthesiologist
opioid-free.
Ella: Ow!
Considerable
intraperitoneal fluid.
She has a perforation and needs
abdominal surgery right away.
No! Dad!
It's gonna be okay, baby.
Mommy will be here soon,
and we'll all play Scrabble.
[sobbing]
We think you suffered
a neck injury,
but we need to get some images
so we can tell for sure.
Hey.
All stabilizing ligaments
have been completely severed.
Internal decapitation.
Have you ever worked
on one of these?
Never even seen one.
Why aren't you
in your patient room?
Oh, I had some last-minute
e-mails to send,
and my preggo-brain
forgot my laptop in here.
Did you get my socks?
Is there something wrong
with your room?
We could get you
extra blankets.
What is this?
This is the cutest hat
I've ever seen.
Oh!
I got one for each of us.
Shaun, I love them.
We should take it
to Glassy.
We should
go to your room.
I-I know things are...
difficult between you two
right now,
but his grandson
is being born today.
He knows.
He said, "Congratulations,"
and then he shut the door.
Mm.
We need to get you hooked up
to a fetal monitor.
The surgery went well.
We repaired Ella's
bowel perforation.
[sighs]
Mommy,
did you bring snacks?
We'll go to the cafeteria
together
as soon as we're done
talking to the doctors.
When can she go home?
Uh, there was some damage
to her spleen.
Uh, we'll need to monitor that
for the next few days,
make sure
it doesn't get worse.
But I'll keep you
updated.
I've got to be in the O.R.
in 10 minutes
for my valve replacement.
Order a post-op CT
and run serial hematocrits.
Mm. Sorry.
I'm not used to having
consultations in my kitchen.
I've never seen
that much separation
between skull and spine.
Have you?
Not in anyone alive.
I was thinking occipitocervical
fusion surgery
using a plate
with four-point fixation
and transpedicular
and translaminar screws.
You're gonna have to add
iliac crest graft
and Songer cables.
You're looking
at over two hours
just to realign
and stabilize
the skull and the spine,
and then
the real work begins.
Your odds of success
are somewhere
between minimal
and nonexistent.
Well, marathons are pointless,
but millions of people
run them anyway.
Feel like running?
I've been deemed "unfit."
You wouldn't be cutting.
You'd be consulting.
Flattering.
You're still one of the world's
foremost experts
on the brain and spine,
and my patient's head
is hanging on by a thread.
This one's scary.
I could use some help.
Sure.
I'm up for some...
color commentary.
You have another contraction
coming in one to two seconds,
and it is a big...
[groans]
...one.
They are now six minutes apart
and increasing in intensity.
We should have the nurse
check your dilation again.
[knock on door]
Hi. Big day.
Excited for you both.
Everyone is busy
because of the accident--
Lim is prepping, Andrews
and Park are in surgery--
and I think my patient
is in trouble.
Her latest CT shows
her splenic injury
is getting worse.
How's Perez doing?
They're just finishing up
his surgery now.
Your patient needs
a splenic artery embolization.
How long can she wait?
There are no
attendings available.
She cannot wait.
Shaun...
you need to do the surgery.
I...should be here with you,
to give you ice chips
and hold your hand
and talk about the future.
Have you been watching movies
about people having babies?
I'm fine.
I have hours to go before
the Peanut makes his debut,
and how complicated
is this procedure?
It is
quite straightforward.
I love you, and I'm so happy
we're starting our family.
But there's a little girl
who needs you.
Please, go.
Okay.
Prep the O.R.
[chuckles]
Do not have this baby
without me!
[groans]
No opioids.
Thank you.
You want
the itemized list?
Multiple
displaced rib fractures,
contusions on both lungs,
abdominal bleeding,
and a fractured pancreas,
which is as painful as it gets.
[gasping]
Danny, you need to let me
give you pain meds,
-real pain meds.
-No.
I've already got you on
acetaminophen, lidocaine,
gabapentin,
and magnesium.
Your heart rate and BP
are still elevated.
You are at risk
for a heart attack or stroke.
No.
I worked way too hard
getting sober.
I can't go back
to square one.
You need opioids.
What I need...
is to hear you tell me
about our dinner tonight.
Please.
Distract me.
The restaurant is
very romantic--
tablecloths and candles
everywhere.
And the music isn't so loud
that it drowns out
all conversation.
[groaning]
The trial starts Monday.
You'd only be in-patient
for three days,
then weekly check-ins
for six weeks.
I suppose I could hire
a dog-sitter.
-[Eden fussing]
-But Lincoln doesn't
like new people.
Or tall people.
Or men.
Can you excuse me
for just one second?
She's the sweetest girl.
She prefers to face out,
be involved.
Yeah. Better.
I'm almost done here.
I need to push my 2:00 p.m.
to 3:00 p.m.,
my 3:00 p.m. to tomorrow.
So, is it three days
and two nights?
-Or three days
and three nights?
-[fussing continues]
Sorry.
A little more head support.
No, not like that.
Just...
Here we go.
Right there.
I need to go.
Lincoln's waiting.
No. Wait. Barbara, it's--
it's two nights.
[sighs]
Please go talk to him.
Shouldn't you be in a room
somewhere, having a baby?
Congratulations,
by the way.
You two cannot be
in a fight today.
It's not a fight.
I know it's a big deal,
but can you please
put it aside,
at least for today?
I got to go to the O.R.
This is probably
the most important day
of Shaun's life.
He needs his father.
[liquid dripping]
Oh, my God.
Either my water
just broke,
or I just peed
all over your office.
Either way,
it would be a first.
-[exhales sharply]
-You have plenty of time.
Here, let me help you.
No, no.
I'm married
to Dr. Shaun Murphy.
He has walked me
through the steps
of the birthing process
many, many times.
I can take it from here.
Please go talk to him.
I'll call janitorial.
I just...
Gail, always a nice surprise,
but you caught me
on a busy day.
Well, sadly,
I'm about to make it busier.
The board's calling
an emergency meeting
for tonight.
Okay, and what is the board
defining as an emergency today?
You, Marcus.
And how you're going to handle
the nurses' push to unionize.
I'm on top of it.
That's the problem.
The splenic artery embolization
went very well.
Your daughter should not need
any more surgeries.
[Asher] She'll need to spend
the next few days
in the hospital
until we can remove
her NG tube,
-get her back on regular--
-[groans]
Honey? Wha--
-What's happening?
-Profoundly hypotensive.
-Kenny!
Pulse disparity
-between arms.
This is likely
an aortic dissection.
We need to get him
to an O.R., stat.
[breathing shallow]
Reasonably happy
in this life...
Supremely happy with You
forever in the next.
-Amen.
-[monitor alarm beeps]
Danny, your BP's 211 over 130,
heart rate 194.
You're having
a hypertensive crisis.
You need fentanyl.
The pain is killing you.
God, grant me the serenity
to accept the things
I cannot change...
[breathing shakily]
He asked you
not to do that.
He's not responding
to the antihypertensive drips.
Right,
so up the dose.
He's tachycardic
and hypertensive
because of the pain.
He's going into shock.
-He's not. He's praying.
-He's dying.
The courage to change
the things I can...
That prayer is what starts
every NA meeting.
He is clinging
onto his sobriety.
...and the wisdom
to know the difference.
[groans]
[both] And wisdom
to know the difference.
He's admitting he doesn't
know what to do.
He's asking God
to help him.
I'm helping him.
You can leave.
Accepting hardship
as a pathway to peace...
[groans]
Living one day
at a time...
[alarm continues]
Enjoying one moment
at a time...
Forever in the next.
Amen.
-Forgive me.
-[groans]
[alarm stops, beeping resumes]
Accepting hardship
as a pathway to peace.
[breathing shakily]
[Shaun] We need
to place the graft
to replace the descending
and thoracic aorta.
[Asher] We need
six more units of blood.
I did a full exam
in the E.R.
I mean,
the imaging was clear.
There were no signs
of dissection.
Trim the distal aorta.
It must have started
small enough to be undetected.
His blood pressure
gradually expanded the tear
until it ruptured.
Oh.
There's a false lumen.
It extends
past the carotid.
The graft...
won't work.
[flatlines]
[Asher] Well, can you...
Can you have
one of your visions?
Come on, Shaun.
There must be something.
For his family.
He's lost more than half
his blood volume.
His brain has been
underperfused for too long.
Time of death...
4:36 p.m.
You might have mentioned
you were one of the organizers
behind the nurses'
unionization push.
Does it matter?
Not to me, but the board
feels differently.
Apparently,
our relationship is why
I haven't been coming down hard
on the nurses.
I can personally attest
that you've been
a total pain about it
the whole time.
Cute.
They're threatening my job.
I don't want you to
lose your job over us.
I don't want to lose you
over my job.
[Dr. Lim] You know,
Shaun and Lea
are having their baby today.
Yes, I'm aware.
[Dr. Lim] Have you
talked to him?
[Dr. Glassman] I said,
"Congratulations."
[Dr. Lim] Well, the alignment
looks much better,
but she could have
horrible stenosis.
Are you planning on
talking to him?
Beyond one word?
[Dr. Glassman]
I'd decompress the C1
with a laminectomy.
[Dr. Lim]You know,
a crotchety, old,
wise man once told me
that hanging onto my anger
was toxic.
[Dr. Glassman]
I'm not "crotchety."
[Dr. Lim] You were right then.
And I'm right now.
[Dr. Glassman
]He publicly humiliated me
yesterday,
as everyone in this room
is quite well aware.
[Dr. Lim] Well, he's having
his baby today.
Pass me two 28-mill
pedicle screws, please.
-I'll take those.
-[Dr. Glassman] Right.
Old habit.
I saw your family
leave a while ago.
Are they getting
a hotel?
You gave me fentanyl.
I did.
Was it
a hard decision?
Overriding my wishes?
Honestly?
No.
You were on the verge
of a heart attack.
-Or brain bleed.
-Yeah, but not definitively.
I wasn't willing
to risk your life
waiting for "definitively."
But you were okay
sending me back
to certain opiate addiction.
I couldn't...
let you die.
[knocks]
I stopped by to offer
my nanny services.
But it looks like
you're all set.
I got all three participants
locked in.
Trial's starting on time.
Now I just need to tell Andrews
that I'm done.
Done?
With this job.
Look,
you've had a long day.
But you'll find a rhythm.
And a nanny.
I can't do this job
as well as I want
and take care of Eden
as well as I need.
I've made the mistake of
putting my career ahead
of the people I love before.
I'm not doing it again.
The nurses put a chair
next to the table for you,
if you would like to sit.
Is it okay
to touch him?
Yes.
Just don't
remove the sheet.
[sniffles]
He was just here.
How am I gonna
tell my girls?
I don't think I can do
any of this without him.
When my brother
Steve died,
I didn't know
how I would survive.
He had always
taken care of me.
But I did.
Because someone else
came into my life
who took care of me
and loved me.
Now he may be gone, too.
It is very hard to lose people
you thought would never leave.
But you will...
be okay
because you have no choice.
When we lose people
we love,
we have to find a way
to keep going
for the people
we still have.
[cellphone chimes]
Take as much time
as you need.
I'm going to
have a baby now.
[sighs]
Oh, you're back.
How's the little girl?
She will be okay.
Mm.
How far apart are
the contractions?
About two minutes.
Okay.
It is time
to start pushing.
Are you sure?
I don't--
I don't feel anything.
That's because
of the epidural,
but your prostaglandin E1
and E2 levels
are at peak concentration
for stimulating
myometrial contractility.
It is time.
Oh.
I'll gown up
and be right back.
I will refill your water bottle
and get an extra pillow.
Do you want a warm
or cold washcloth?
Either is fine,
but I-I need more time.
Delaying delivery can cause
excessive postpartum bleeding,
plus an increase
in bacterial infections.
I'll get one warm
and one cold.
Shaun, wait.
Come here a minute.
I'm scared.
Really, really scared.
It is...
common for women
to be anxious
about
the birthing process.
For nine months, my whole goal
was to keep this baby
in my belly, safe
and sound and protected.
And now it feels like
I'm supposed to just
shove my own heart
into the world and--
and let it walk around
all exposed and vulnerable
and so, so tiny.
And I'm not gonna be able
to protect him anymore.
It will be okay.
Probably.
I am very excited
to meet our son.
I'm really excited, too.
Okay.
Okay, let's--
let's do this.
Okay.
[sighs]
You're two hours
out of surgery.
Lie down.
When can I get back
to the home?
I need to
take your vitals.
Ehh.
Want us to
call your family?
I got to call Martha.
-Wife? Girlfriend?
-Neither.
We take walks
every morning
with about 20 other old farts
from the home--
all waking up to watch
the damn sunrise.
Not your
preferred activity?
Doc, if God wanted us
to see the sunrise,
he would have put it at
a more reasonable hour.
You go
because Martha's there.
I think it's time
I told her...
she's the reason I wake up
in the morning.
Let's give her a call.
Thanks.
You're all right, Doc.
I went through
my patient record.
You made
the right call.
Thank you.
But...
I'm going to need all the help
I can get to recover
without relapsing.
I...
need to go back to Texas
with my family.
I knew when I gave you
the drugs,
I might lose you.
And it wasn't
a hard decision?
The decision was easy.
The aftermath is...
Well, I'm not going anywhere
until we have our date.
Are you free tonight?
[both chuckle]
[screams]
The levator ani muscle is
undergoing a stretch ratio
-of 3.26, which is normal.
-[screams]
Shaun, I need you up here,
not down there.
Why isn't he coming out?
[Dr. Glenn] The little guy is
just progressing slowly.
I think we need a vacuum
assist to help--
You want to vacuum
my baby out of me?
[Shaun]
It is standard protocol
if a baby is stalled
in the birth canal.
I covered this in the e-mail
about instrum--
There were a lot
of e-mails, Shaun.
Okay.
[whimpers]
Is it safe
for the baby?
Mm.
Will he have
a cone-head?
Only for approximately
48 hours.
Okay, mama.
You ready?
Mm-hmm.
[whimpers]
I am here for you.
You can
squeeze my hand.
[groaning]
[screams]
You're doing great.
He's almost here.
[gasps]
[baby crying]
Oh!
Congratulations,
Mom and Dad.
Ooh.
Oh, I can't believe
you're finally here, Peanut.
He doesn't look like
an alien at all.
His...head has
a very nice shape.
Yeah.
He is beautiful.
Dr. Murphy, would you like
to do the honors?
Yes.
I would very much
like to do that.
[Lea] Hi.
Look at what we made.
Hello.
It is very nice
to meet you.
I am Dr. Shaun Murphy.
I'm your dad.
You think anybody would notice
if we took this home with us?
I think
you should leave it.
I wasn't really going
to take it.
Oh, sure you were.
But...
I don't think
you should resign.
Because you don't have to
do it all alone.
You're the reason
I wake up in the morning.
So, whatever there is
to figure out,
all I want in the world is
for us to do it as a family.
I love you, too.
[Enid fussing]
She has a dirty diaper.
And I have 30 lab reports
to review.
[Eden fussing]
[chuckles]
Thank you...
for saving my life.
You're very welcome.
I-I, um--
I didn't mean today.
I meant when you made looking
for a foot in a lake fun.
When you sat next to me
in church, quietly,
knowing that was
exactly what I needed.
And, uh,
when you trusted me...
even though I'm pretty sure
I didn't deserve it.
And, of course, today.
You make me believe
that I can do this.
You will be okay.
I'm gonna miss you.
Thank you.
I love a sunset
as much as anyone,
but isn't this
a little sentiment
over science?
There's a case study
out of Alabama--
internal decapitation.
They took the patient out
every night--
sunset, beautiful sky,
and fresh air
to help
stimulate the brain.
How long before they got
a response?
A couple days,
but it worked.
Hey, how can you argue
with a thing
called "Operation Sunset"?
Your family is coming.
I know they'd love to see
you smile, or even a blink.
Or you could just
flip us off
because you're cold
and you're afraid of heights.
You've got your methods,
I've got mine.
-[cellphone chimes]
-Whatever works.
Shaun and Lea
had their baby.
Do you want to
go meet him?
I think I'll stay here.
Thank you.
I know that losing surgery
is devastating.
Don't let losing one great love
cost you another.
♪ You got wings,
but they won't get you
off the ground ♪
♪ And you got low and got off
right before the station ♪
I wanted to give you
a heads-up, as a friend.
Uh-oh.
I've decided to resign.
Seriously?
Yeah.
♪ You are coming home ♪
[laughing]
♪ Oh, you ♪
♪ You are coming home ♪
Do you think Dr. Glassman
is coming?
Let's take a picture
before my adrenaline wears off
and I pass out.
I'll get the hats.
I would love the honor
of taking
the first family photo.
♪ Goodbye ♪
♪ 'Cause you ♪
♪ You are coming home ♪
♪ Oh, you ♪
[laughter]
♪ You are coming home ♪
Hi, baby.
-Okay.
-Take a good picture.
Hey, baby boy Murphy.
Smile for your big debut.
Three, two, one, cheese.
[camera shutter clicks]
Beautiful.
♪ You are coming home ♪
[laughter]
[Lea] Hi.
Hi, baby.
This is from
Dr. Glassman.
♪ You got low and got off
right before the station ♪
♪ Now all you've got to do
is turn around ♪
How did he know
his name would be Steve?
Because he knows you.
♪ You, you are coming home ♪
♪ Oh, you ♪
♪ You are coming home ♪
♪ I will calm the rivers
in your mind ♪
♪ Though it might take
a little time, you know ♪
♪ But you're coming home ♪
Steven Aaron Murphy.
♪ You are not alone ♪
This is a gift
from your grandfather.
♪ Coming home ♪
[closing theme music playing]